Updates for `Sumida` protocol upgrade (#147)
autonity/docs.autonity.org: concepts/system-model/index.md

Transaction calls execute against local state and are not broadcast to the network, per standard Ethereum.
:::

### P2P networking protocols

> P2P networking protocols are based on Ethereum devp2p, RLPx as transport to an ethereum wire protocol (eth66). Peer to peer gossiping is separated into two channels: ethereum wire protocol for _transaction_ gossiping, and a dedicated consensus channel for _consensus_ gossiping during Tendermint BFT consensus rounds. These run  on different TCP ports, defaults of `30303` and `20203` respectively.

Reviewer: I think the first sentence is kinda confusing and doesn't give much insight so I would just remove it.

Author: Edited out.

"P2P networking protocols are based on Ethereum devp2p, RLPx as transport to an ethereum wire protocol (eth66)." removed in commit 8a6b4b19931f5c2e144e80c7bfb012c0567b2e08.

### Separate channels for transaction and consensus gossiping

> The segregation of transaction and consensus traffic into different channels prevents the risk of high transaction traffic interfering with consensus traffic and delaying the consensus process. Further, gossiping separation improves network scalability and robustness as consensus is shielded from transaction volume growth, whilst the separation of concerns allows each gossiping channel to be managed independently (e.g. socket buffering). For example, a validator node operator can setup their IP and port configuration to prioritise a robust network for the consensus channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gossiping separation improves network scalability and robustness as consensus is shielded from transaction volume growth, whilst the separation of concerns allows each gossiping channel to be managed independently (e.g. socket buffering). For example, a validator node operator can setup their IP and port configuration to prioritise a robust network for the consensus channel.
```

I think the first sentence is redundant, it says the same thing as the second one.

Autonity implements [Tendermint BFT consensus](/concepts/consensus/pos/) as an independent consensus protocol running alongside the ethereum wire protocol. Logically, this can be considered as a separate Autonity Consensus Network (ACN) layer. By default, the consensus protocol is configured to use port `20203` and assumes the IP to be the same as the Ethereum wire protocol IP. If a validator wishes to use a different IP and/or port combination for the consensus network, they can specify this information in the enode URL

> The standard Ethereum [enode URL](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networking-layer/network-addresses#enode) is composed of components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standard Ethereum [enode URL](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networking-layer/network-addresses#enode) is composed of:
```

- protocol (or scheme): the enode URL scheme `enode://`

> - username: the node ID, the public key of the node's private key (`autonitykeys`), a hex string

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- username: the node ID, the public key of the node's `autonitykeys`, a hex string
```

- hostname: the IP address and TCP listening port of the node, i,e. the ethereum wire protocol, separated from the username by an `@`: `ip:port`
- (optionally) query parameter `?discport`: the UDP (discovery) port if different to the TCP port

Autonity simply uses the standard URL scheme to specify the consensus channel `ip:port` in the query parameter:

> - (optionally) `acn=ip:port`: IP and port information for the consensus channel is added as the query parameter or after the `discport` value if specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (optionally) `acn=ip:port`: IP and port information for the consensus channel is added as a query parameter.
```

Valid enode url query parameter forms for specifying non-default consensus channel `ip:port` could be:

- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?acn=127.0.0.1:20203`: ip and port
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?discport=30301&acn=127.0.0.1:20203`: ip and port
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?acn=127.0.0.1`: ip only
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?discport=30301&acn=127.0.0.1`: ip only
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?acn=:20203`: port only
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?discport=30301&acn=:20203`: port only

::: {.callout-note title="Note" collapse="false"}
Separate transaction and consensus gossiping channels is a logical and physical segregation as each type of traffic is on a separate socket. Although CPU and memory resources remain shared, the design ensures that gossiping of consensus traffic is not delayed due to transaction traffic on the same socket queue.

The design allows validator node operators the flexibility to configure distinct networks (not necessarily different hosts) to set the network quality for consensus and transaction traffic.

> Ideally, operators should opt for a higher-bandwidth and a network with a higher reliability guarantee for consensus traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, operators should opt for a higher-bandwidth network for transactions and a network with a higher reliability guarantee for consensus traffic.
```

I guess there is a missing piece

Transaction calls execute against local state and are not broadcast to the network, per standard Ethereum.
:::

### P2P networking protocols
P2P networking protocols are Ethereum devp2p, RLPx as transport to an ethereum wire protocol (eth66). Modifications for the Autonity Protocol consensus and communication model are made:

> - the wire protocol (eth66) is modified to add messages for Tendermint BFT consensus rounds

Reviewer 2: this is incorrect eth66 doesn't have anything to do with acn now. acn is separate. though both of them use similar underlying concepts

Author: I have simplified this:

Replacing:

>...Modifications for the Autonity Protocol consensus and communication model are made:
>
>- the wire protocol (eth66) is modified to add messages for Tendermint BFT consensus rounds
>- peer to peer gossiping is separated into two channels, ethwire and consensus, separating _transaction_ and _consensus_ level gossiping on to different TCP ports (defaults of `30303` and `20203` respectively).

With:

>...Peer to peer gossiping is separated into two channels: ethereum wire protocol for _transaction_ gossiping, and a dedicated consensus channel for _consensus_ gossiping during Tendermint BFT consensus rounds. These run  on different TCP ports, defaults of `30303` and `20203` respectively.

Commit bd8e50b56ec2e7f357a86d01c7be9cb50d2c481e

- peer to peer gossiping is separated into two channels, ethwire and consensus, separating _transaction_ and _consensus_ level gossiping on to different TCP ports (defaults of `30303` and `20203` respectively).

### Separate channels for transaction and consensus gossiping

> The segregation of transaction and consensus traffic into different channels on prevents the risk of high transaction traffic interfering with consensus traffic and delaying the consensus process. Further, gossiping separation improves network scalability and robustness as consensus is shielded from transaction volume growth, whilst the separation of concerns allows each gossiping channel to be managed independently (e.g. socket buffering). For example, a validator node operator can setup their IP and port configuration to prioritise a robust network for the consensus channel.

Reviewer 2: the language can be refactored here:  

> The segregation of transaction and consensus traffic into different channels **on** prevents

Remove **on**

Author: Removed the surplus "**on**". 

Commit bd8e50b56ec2e7f357a86d01c7be9cb50d2c481e

Author: Resolving - discussed with @vpiyush who is happy with edit.

> Autonity implements [Tendermint BFT consensus](/concepts/consensus/pos/) as an independent consensus protocol running alongside the ethereum wire protocol. Logically, this can be considered as a separate Autonity Consensus Network (ACN) layer. The consensus protocol leverages node information obtained through the wire protocol's node discovery mechanisms. If the consensus channel TCP port default (`20203`) is not used, then the custom `ip:port` information is specified as part of the enode url. If the enode URL provides consensus channel information, this is used to connect to the validator node at the specified IP:port combination. Otherwise, the consensus protocol assumes that the consensus channel IP is the same as the transaction channel IP, and the consensus channel port is fixed at the default port number `20203`.

Reviewer 2: "The consensus protocol leverages node information obtained through the wire protocol's node discovery mechanisms"  This is incorrect.

Reviewer 2: The consensus protocol assumes 20203 as the default port, If the default is not used..... and so on

Author: Removed "The consensus protocol leverages node information obtained through the wire protocol's node discovery mechanisms."

Reworded to "The consensus protocol assumes `20203` as the default port. If the default port is not used, then the custom `ip:port` information is specified as part of the enode url."

Commit bd8e50b56ec2e7f357a86d01c7be9cb50d2c481e

Author: Resolving - discussed with @vpiyush who is happy with edit.

> Autonity implements [Tendermint BFT consensus](/concepts/consensus/pos/) as an independent consensus protocol running alongside the ethereum wire protocol. Logically, this can be considered as a separate Autonity Consensus Network (ACN) layer. The consensus protocol leverages node information obtained through the wire protocol's node discovery mechanisms. If the consensus channel TCP port default (`20203`) is not used, then the custom `ip:port` information is specified as part of the enode url. If the enode URL provides consensus channel information, this is used to connect to the validator node at the specified IP:port combination. Otherwise, the consensus protocol assumes that the consensus channel IP is the same as the transaction channel IP, and the consensus channel port is fixed at the default port number `20203`.

Reviewer 2: I also think the whole para can be summarised like this, _"By default, the consensus protocol is configured to use port 20203 and assumes the IP to be the same as the Ethereum wire protocol IP. If a validator wishes to use a different IP and/or port combination for the consensus network, they can specify this information in the enode URL"_

Author: OK, I have deleted:

>If the enode URL provides consensus channel information, this is used to connect to the validator node at the specified IP:port combination. Otherwise, the consensus protocol assumes that the consensus channel IP is the same as the transaction channel IP, and the consensus channel port is fixed at the default port number `20203`.

This paragraph now reads:

>Autonity implements [Tendermint BFT consensus](/concepts/consensus/pos/) as an independent consensus protocol running alongside the ethereum wire protocol. Logically, this can be considered as a separate Autonity Consensus Network (ACN) layer. By default, the consensus protocol is configured to use port `20203` and assumes the IP to be the same as the Ethereum wire protocol IP. If a validator wishes to use a different IP and/or port combination for the consensus network, they can specify this information in the enode URL.

Commit bd8e50b56ec2e7f357a86d01c7be9cb50d2c481e

Author: Resolving - discussed with @vpiyush who is happy with edit.

The standard Ethereum [enode URL](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networking-layer/network-addresses#enode) is composed of components:

- protocol (or scheme): the enode URL scheme `enode://`
- username: the node ID, the public key of the node's private key (`autonitykeys`), a hex string
- hostname: the IP address and TCP listening port of the node, i,e. the ethereum wire protocol, separated from the username by an `@`: `ip:port`
- (optionally) query parameter `?discport`: the UDP (discovery) port if different to the TCP port

Autonity simply uses the standard URL scheme to specify the consensus channel `ip:port` in the query parameter:

- (optionally) `acn=ip:port`: IP and port information for the consensus channel is added as the query parameter or after the `discport` value if specified.

Valid enode url query parameter forms for specifying non-default consensus channel `ip:port` could be:

> - `@127.0.0.1:30303?acn=@127.0.0.1`: ip only

Reviewer 2: the @ symbol shouldn't be there. in all of the examples. it's just ip:port

Reviewer 2: Also if you can rework the order. so that  the basic example is on top. which is full ip:port with and without discport

Author: Edited to:

```
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?acn=127.0.0.1:20203`: ip and port
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?discport=30301&acn=127.0.0.1:20203`: ip and port
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?acn=127.0.0.1`: ip only
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?discport=30301&acn=127.0.0.1`: ip only
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?acn=:20203`: port only
- `...@127.0.0.1:30303?discport=30301&acn=:20203`: port only
```

In commit bd8e50b56ec2e7f357a86d01c7be9cb50d2c481e.

Author: I'm wondering if if would be better if the localhost IP was replaced with a more realistic one e.g. something like:

- `...@85.133.59.230:30303?acn=85.133.59.230:20210`: ip and port

What do you think @vpiyush ?

Author: Resolving - discussed with @vpiyush who is happy with edit.
